09-FindPkg: Environment Hints (#16)
hsf-training/hsf-training-cmake-webpage: _episodes/09-findingpackages.md

You can add `COMPONENTS` in some cases, if the package supports it, and you can also add `QUIET` to
hide extra text, or `REQUIRED` to cause a missing package to fail the configure step.

> ## Aside: Environment Hints
>
> Hinting the installation of software package that is installed outside of a system paths works can also be done with environment variables.
> In CMake 3.12+, individual packages locations can be hinted by setting their installation root path in [`<PackageName>_ROOT`][].
>
> ~~~bash
> export HDF5_ROOT=$HOME/software/hdf5-1.12.0
> ~~~
>

> > Similarily, the variable [`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`][] can be used to hint a list of installation root paths at once:

Reviewer: Sadly, the link here is ambiguous; this exists as both a variable and a env variable.
```suggestion
> Similarly, the variable [`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/envvar/CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH.html) can be used to hint a list of installation root paths at once:
```

>
> ~~~bash

> > export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$HOME/software/hdf5-1.12.0:$HOME/software/boost-1.74.0

Author: As separators, I am always using `:` on Unix and `;` on Windows.
According to the docs, it might be that `;` works on all platforms...

Independent of that, maybe
```suggestion
> export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$HOME/software/hdf5-1.12.0:$HOME/software/boost-1.74.0:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH
```
is a better example (extent/prepend)?

Reviewer: Would $HOME work on Windows? I think we'd probably (eventually) need a Windows version of this line anyway.

Simicolons make a CMake list, but that's for the [CMake variable](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH.html#variable:CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH), not the [environment variable](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/envvar/CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH.html) version.

Author: ah right, I was running through the link too quickly.
